README.md, before:

Packer for Proxmox
===================

This repository provides an easy way to create templates in Proxmox using Packer and the Proxmox plugin.

Prerequisites
=============

- Packer 1.8.6+ installed on your system
- A Proxmox environment running version 7.X

Installing Packer
============================================

To install Packer on other Linux distributions, please follow the official installation guide: https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/packer/getting-started-install.

Usage
=====

1. Copy the example common variables file and fill it with your specific variables:

   cp common.pkrvars.hcl{.example,}
   
2. Set the following required variables in your `common.pkrvars.hcl` file:
   
   proxmox_url = "https://pve.domain.lan:8006/api2/json"
   proxmox_node = "node_name"
   proxmox_username = "user@pam"
   proxmox_password = "**********"
   proxmox_datastore = "" # Where to find iso file 
   proxmox_storage_pool = "" # Where the template disks will be created
   vm_username= ""
   vm_password_encrypted = ""
   
   To create an encrypted `vm_password_encrypted` value, you can use one of the following commands:
   - `mkpasswd -m sha256crypt` on Debian-based distributions
   - `openssl passwd -6` on recent RHEL-based distributions
   - `python3 -c 'import crypt,getpass; print(crypt.crypt(getpass.getpass()))'` using Python

3. Build a template :

   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl ubuntu/22.04
   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl rocky/9.1
   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl debian/11
   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl rhel/8.7
   
Customization
=============

You can customize your template by adding missing values to `variables.hcl` or `distro.hcl`, or you can override any of the values in `variables.hcl` by editing the `common.pkrvars.hcl` file. Editing variables in this file will override any default values. In most common cases, you will just need to uncomment the variables needed in the `common.pkrvars.hcl` file and use your own values.

You can use the `--debug` option in Packer to interactively check what's going on during provision along with `PACKER_LOG=1` variable to get more verbose logging.

To enable debug logging, run:

PACKER_LOG=1 packer build -debug -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl rocky/9.1

Commit message:

Update readme file and add packer init file

README.md, after:

Packer for Proxmox
===================

This repository provides an easy way to create templates in Proxmox using Packer and the Proxmox plugin.
You can install packer and provision either from proxmox or any other host that has access to proxmox API

Prerequisites
=============

- Packer 1.8.6+ installed on your system
- A Proxmox environment running version 7.X

```
packer init require.pkr.hcl
```

Installing Packer
============================================

To install Packer on other Linux distributions, please follow the official installation guide: https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/packer/getting-started-install.

Usage
=====

1. Copy the example common variables file and fill it with your specific variables:

   cp common.pkrvars.hcl{.example,}
   
2. Set the following required variables in your `common.pkrvars.hcl` file:
   
   proxmox_url = "https://pve.domain.lan:8006/api2/json"
   proxmox_node = "node_name"
   proxmox_username = "user@pam"
   proxmox_password = "**********"
   proxmox_datastore = "" # Where to find iso file 
   proxmox_storage_pool = "" # Where the template disks will be created
   vm_username= ""
   vm_password_encrypted = ""
   
   To create an encrypted `vm_password_encrypted` value, you can use one of the following commands:
   - `mkpasswd -m sha256crypt` on Debian-based distributions
   - `openssl passwd -6` on recent RHEL-based distributions
   - `python3 -c 'import crypt,getpass; print(crypt.crypt(getpass.getpass()))'` using Python

3. Build a template :

   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl ubuntu/22.04
   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl rocky/9.1
   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl debian/11
   packer build -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl rhel/8.7
   
Customization
=============

You can customize your template by adding missing values to `variables.hcl` or `distro.hcl`, or you can override any of the values in `variables.hcl` by editing the `common.pkrvars.hcl` file. Editing variables in this file will override any default values. In most common cases, you will just need to uncomment the variables needed in the `common.pkrvars.hcl` file and use your own values.

You can use the `--debug` option in Packer to interactively check what's going on during provision along with `PACKER_LOG=1` variable to get more verbose logging.

To enable debug logging, run:

PACKER_LOG=1 packer build -debug -var-file=common.pkrvars.hcl rocky/9.1
